In the last one year alone,
health insurance claims worth Rs 26,000 crore have been rejected.
Meaning people did not get the money.
Despite taking health insurance and paying health
insurance premiums every month and every year.
Meaning one out of every 10 claims is rejected.  This
means that you have taken health insurance.
Keep paying premiums for years.   I
paid lakhs, I paid crores.  It doesn't make any
sense.  But when the
time comes for the insurance company to pay the claim, when you
are in the hospital and you ask for the bill, the insurance
company will pay it.  The insurance company will say no, it has been
rejected.  Pay the entire bill from your own pocket
and you can't do anything.  You will have to pay the
bill from your own pocket.  Bhaiya,
this is what happened with an aunty from Rajkot.
Aunty had cancer.  A bill of Rs 7.5 lakh came.  But the
insurance company rejected the claim.  The
hospital bill was told to be paid by itself as they were
not going to pay it, now when I told it, it was said that the
aunty's family paid the bill and do you know
why, because at the time of taking the insurance, the
aunty had not told that she had
diabetes, then the aunty said what is the
connection between diabetes and cancer, right, you had not told that if you had
diabetes then today it is cancer, right, the
insurance company says
rule is rule, they did not tell but this will also be
rejected, similar thing happened with a person from Mumbai,
Bhai Saheb had insurance of Rs. 2.5 crores each.  2.5 crores, imagine
how much insurance premium of 2.5 crores
that man must have been paying, he did
not even get it.  Then it seems that
taking health insurance is useless.
Ultimately the insurance company will not pay the claim.
After hospitalization, when we say to the
insurance company, brother, give us money, if the bill comes for Rs. 5 lakh,
7 lakh, 10 lakh, 1 crore
and the company will not pay it, then
what is the use of paying our premium?
but it's not like that.  Now
listen carefully to what I am going to say.  If you
have health insurance or are thinking of getting it,
then stop and listen carefully to
whatever I am going to say in the next 8-10 minutes
because today I am going to
tell you about many such mistakes due to which
lakhs of rupees of people get lost in the increasing insurance
premium
but the claim is not received and you know
these are some very small mistakes which
we make while buying insurance.  There are some
very small things which we ignore and do
not pay attention to and when the
time of claim comes, we do not get it.
Today I am going to tell you carefully about these mistakes. If you have
taken insurance or are
planning to take it, then check these mistakes.  Have
you paid any tax or if you are going to
pay it then are you not paying it?
Listen carefully to see what the mistakes are.
And for this entire lesson that I am going to give you today,
I have studied a lot on the internet,
brother.  I have done a lot of analysis.
But after looking at many sources, I
got the most help from one source.
Join ditto.in See, they do
not sell any insurance policies of their own but
Ditto helps
people to understand, compare and
choose the right health insurance plan.  Well,
we will talk about Ditto in detail later.
But for now, I will point out the mistakes.
What mistakes do we make?  Now
listen carefully to mistake number one.
Most of you might
not have even heard the word 'payment affair'.  You might
not have even seen it in the policy document.  You might not have even paid attention while taking it.
But
your policy gets stuck in this.  Let me explain the whole scenario.  The
agent will come to you.  He will say
sir there is a cover of ₹5 lakh.  The premium will be
₹7,000 per year and then it will be said that if you take 20%
payment then you will get a discount of ₹1800 in the premium.
You will be happy.
₹1800 discount is available.  Without knowing
how the copayment is going to harm you.
You won't even ask and you just sign.   Go ahead.
Now imagine, after 9 months, an
accident happened.  God forbid it happened.
Admitted to the hospital, the bill came to ₹ lakh.
You made a claim, the insurance company
gave you ₹1,600 but did not give the remaining ₹400.  Why?
Because sir, your comment is for 20%, so
you give 20%.  Copayment means
that the insurance company will not pay the entire amount.
You just do the calculation.  How much money did you
save in premium?  ₹1800.
You had to pay ₹400 in the claim.  Brother, it will take 22
years to cover the loss of what you saved.
So
what is the rule?  What is a lesson?
Stay away from co-payment policies.  Unless there is an extreme
compulsion.  There is no need to choose the co-payment option.
Now listen carefully to mistake number two.  The
trap of room rent limit is
very dangerous because people do
not understand it easily and
when do they get trapped later?  When it comes to taking claim from insurance brother.
Understand the scenario.  Suppose
you have a cover of Rs 5 lakh.  The policy states that the
room rent limit is equal to 1% of the sum
assured.  This means that 1% of ₹5 lakh i.e.
₹5,000 per day room rent is covered.  What I
mean to say is that if you have a room and the rent is up to ₹5,000 per day,
then the company will cover the insurance cover.
So what do you understand from this that
brother, if it is above Rs 5,000
then we will have to do the beer ourselves.  This is what I understand, right
?  Let me explain.  Suppose you went to the
hospital.  You took a room for ₹10,000.
You thought that you would stay
in the hospital for only two days.  We will give ₹10,000 extra
because by dividing it into 5-5000 rupees, we will give ₹5000 extra for one day and ₹
10,000 extra for two days.
But here comes the twist.
After two days, when you are discharged, the
insurance company will say, Sir, you have to pay ₹25,000
extra.  You will say,
how will I give 25,000 extra brother?
We had taken a room for only ₹1,000.  So the company
will say, no sir, you have taken a room for 50% more.
5,000 cover.  You
took a room for Rs 10,000.  If you have taken a room for 50% more, then
your insurance company will cover only 50%
of everything, yes, everything,
not just the room rent, the entire bill
means the company will pay 50% of the room rent as well, will pay
50% of the surgeon's fee as well, will pay 50% of the diagnostic fee as well, will pay
only 50% of everything,
means suppose the surgeon's fee was ₹00, then you will
get only ₹000, give the remaining ₹000 yourself,
you will say brother, this is a complete fraud.
What is all of this about?  This is a ridiculous rule.   The
insurance company will say rule is rule.  You did
n't read it when you signed it.  I had
n't really read it then.  That's why I got stuck.  So
that's why you must check the room rent limit.
What does the lesson get from this?
Never take a policy with room rent limit.  There
should not be a room rent limit in your policy.
Brother, find a policy with no room rent limit capping.  I have to take that only.  Now listen to mistake number
three.
Disease wise sub limits are a very dirty trick
of insurance companies.  Listen carefully.  The
scenario is that an agent will come to
you.  He will say, Sir, you are getting a cover of Rs 10 lakh
and you have to pay only Rs 6000 premium.
You will think that it is very cheap brother,
how is this so?  Well, you will also trust what the agent says.
Why?  Because he is a relative of your family.
You trusted him and took the policy from him.
Signed all the documents.  But one day the
slip desk was done.  Bag had to undergo surgery.  The
bill came and
you claimed ₹36,000.  The insurance company said,
Sir, we will give only ₹1 lakh.  You will say,
brother, I have a cover of ₹1 lakh.  So the
company will say, Sir, please read the policy once.   The
limit for back surgery is only ₹ lakh.   The
limit for heart surgery is only ₹5
lakh.  The limit for knee replacement is
only ₹5 lakh.
Meaning the cover of Rs 10 lakh is just nominal.
You have set limits for every major disease.
So brother, that is why the policy
was so cheap because the company never
wants to pay the full amount.  I don't have to give it to him.
What lessons do you get?
Check no disease wise sublimit in the policy.  No disease
wise, definitely see all the limits brother.  Now
listen to the fourth mistake.  Waiting period and
non-disclosure of illness.  This is a big mistake.   It
is very important to understand this.  After all, what is the concept
of waiting period while taking health insurance
?  Now you will say,
Sagar Sir, like the railway ticket, there is
no waiting here too, brother, this is not that kind of waiting.
This is a little different.  Let me explain.  The
first option in waiting period is one
month waiting period.  Meaning, you should see that
most of the diseases are not covered for the first one month after taking the policy.
Except for accidents.  If any kind of
accident happens then it is covered from day one.
But any illness other than that will
not be covered for 30 days.
What am I trying to say in simple words?  For the first 30
days,
the insurance will not pay you for any medical procedure except in case of an accident.
After that comes the
specific illness waiting period.  There are some
diseases which develop slowly.
Insurance companies will
not cover them for the first 2 years.  For example, there is a
hernia, a cataract, or a kidney
stone.  This means that if this problem occurs
in the first two years, the
insurance company will not pay its bill.  And after this there is a
waiting period for pre-existing diseases.  Meaning pre-existing diseases
means those diseases which are already present in you before taking the policy
or
in the person who is taking the policy, like it could be diabetes
, BP, thyroid.   The
insurance company generally does not cover the treatment of these diseases for
two to three years.
So before taking the policy, one more
thing to keep in mind is not to hide the disease.  Many
people think that if brother does not tell about the disease then
we will be saved from the waiting period.
Brother, those who are sitting here know everything.
While operating your body, they will examine it thoroughly to find out
which disease occurred and when.
So this is the biggest mistake.  You
hide your illness and later make a claim and the company
rejects your claim due to non-disclosure.  What is a lesson?
You will hide the disease.  The claim will be rejected in the future.
Initially, I had
not told anyone about the cancer aunty who had diabetes, so the cancer
claim was rejected.  Ok?  Now
listen to mistake number five.  Pre and post
hospitalization,
look brother, suppose one day you feel dizzy,
you go to the doctor, get a blood test done, get an MRI done
and the doctor will say get admitted.
Suppose you stayed in the hospital for three days and the hospital bill came to ₹10,000.
But the tests before admission were for Rs 15,000.
You have made a good claim, the insurance company will say
that sir, we will pay only the hospital bill of
₹10,000.  This means that the Rs
15,000 spent on the earlier test is not covered.   This
means that whatever expenses were incurred before admission and
after discharge,
you will have to bear them.  What is a lesson?
Look at the pre-hospitalization cover in the policy, it should be 30 to 60 days.  This
means that the company will bear all the expenses incurred on tests etc. during the
30 to 60 days prior to the time of hospitalization.
Look for post hospitalization cover of 60 to 90 days.  This means that the company will bear all the expenses
of medicines and tests for 60 to 90 days after discharge from the hospital.
So that is why this is also very important.  Now
you might be thinking that there is so much confusion.  There are
so many hidden traps.  There
is a matter of co-payment.  Rumors are about capping.
Look at all the limits, look at the waiting period.
How do I know which plan
is right for me?  This is where Honestly join dito.in
comes into play.  This helps you.
Understand what Ditto does in this.
Firstly, they do not put this pressure of selling insurance on you at all.  They
give you spam free advice.  Meaning, from tomorrow, sir, take a policy
, take a policy.  Hey, you're not going to get random calls.
This is the best thing.
There, expert advice is given to you for free
on call, explaining which plan
is good for you, which plan you should take,
which things should be avoided.  And the most
important thing is that it tells you in which policy hidden clauses are
stuck.  And
their easy to understand tools are
also available on the website.  So that you
can compare the policies side by side yourself.  You
can understand the features.  And not only this, if tomorrow you face
any problem in getting the claim, then
Ditto provides you proper help and support in the paper work and claim process.
And now before I end the video, let me give
you a quick recap of
what all things you need to check before buying health insurance.
What did we
talk about?  The first option should be non-copayment.  That means you
don't give us money from your pocket.  There should be no copayment.
Second, what did we talk about?  There
should be no room rent limit.  There
should not be any capping on room rent also.  After that
we talked about no disease sublimit.  We want complete cover
from the insurance company, not partial cover.
We don't want to pay anything. After that, we
talked about the waiting period. Brother, you
must get information about it. Whatever insurance policy you
buy, after that we talked about pre and
post hospitalization. Pre hospitalization should be at
least 30 to 60 days.
Post hospitalization should be at least 60 to 90
days. After that,
you should understand one or two more things. You must also look at the network hospitals
in whichever area you are living.
Whatever hospital is available there, is
it covered in your policy or not?
Because when it comes to going to the hospital, the first thing a
person looks for is the nearest hospital.
So, definitely check whether the hospital near your house is
covered in that policy or not.
After that
also look at the claim settlement ratio.  Whichever company's plan you are
taking, take only that company whose
claim settlement ratio is more than 95%.  And now
finally, before ending,
listen carefully to a few things.  Look what happens is
that most of us do
not read the policy document.  It sounds boring,
who will read such a long document?  But
this is a one time effort sir.  The right policy
can save you a good 10 years of money.
You are taking it for one occasion, you are
taking it for one time, that brother,
we do not have to pay the hospitalization bill.
Otherwise what if God makes something unwanted happen?
Not reading the document is a crime.  Understand this.
So if you are taking any policy, then
definitely read the policy document.  A wrong policy can
sink you and everything you own.  Know this.
So please if you are looking for honest
spam free insurance help
visit the website and book a free call with Ditto.  I've
put the link in the description and in the comments.